<meta name="title" content="Subscribe to subscriptions - DecoJS">


<div class="page-header">
  <h1>Subscribe to subscriptions</h1>
</div>

[We have already](#03) seen how to subscribe and unsubscribe in DecoJS, but there is one small thing we haven't looked at yet, which is subscribing to subscriptions. In some situations we need to know when an event is subscribed to and when it is unsubscribed from. Luckily there is a way to subscribe to subscribtions and unsubscriptions in DecoJS (and of course there is a way to unsubscribe from subscriptions and unsubscriptions). For example:


```js
define('ClockVM', ['tickEvent'], function(tick){
  
  return function ClockVM(model, when){
  
    when(tick, function(currentTime){
      console.log(currentTime);
    });
  }
});

define('Ticker', ['tickEvent'], function(tick){
  
  return function Ticker(model, when){  
    var subscribers = 0;
    var intval = null;
  
    when(tick.isSubscribedTo, function(){
      if(subscribers === 0){
        intval = setInterval(proclaim, 1000);
      }
      subscribers++;
    });
    
    when(tick.isUnsubscribedFrom, function(){
      subscribers--;
      if(subscribers === 0){
        clearInterval(intval);
      }
    });
    
    function proclaim(){
      tick(new Date());
    }
  }
});
```
In the bove code we first have a viewmodel which subscribes to a tick event and will react by logging the current time to the console. Next we have the module that triggers the tick event. A simple solution would be to publish the tick event once a second, but there is no point in doing that if nobody subscribes to the event. Instead it uses the `when(tick.isSubscribedTo, ...)` method to be notified when the event is subscribed to. If it is the first time the event is subscribed to, it will start the timer interval. It then uses the `when(tick.isUnsubscribedFrom, ...)` method to react to unsubscriptions. If there are no more subscribers to the event then it can clear the interval and no longer run the code every second.

In the above example the Ticker will clean up after itself since `when()` is used, but there is also a way to stop listening to subscriptions and unsubscriptions manually. Just like with normal events, where we use `.dont()` to unsubscribe, we can unsubscribe from subscription and unsubscription events:

```js
whenTick.isSubscribedTo(reactOneWay);
whenTick.isUnsubscribedFrom(reactAnotherWay);

//later, when we are no longer interested in the subscription information
whenTick.isSubscribedTo.dont(reactOneWay);
whenTick.isUnsubscribedFrom.dont(reactAnotherWay);
```

Currently there is no way to subscribe to subscribers subscribing to events.