<meta name="title" content="Lazy loading views - DecoJS">


<div class="page-header">
  <h1>Lazy loading views</h1>
</div>

We have [already](#08) seen how to use `data-outlet` and templates to create a simple SPA in DecoJS, so today we will look at how to create a lazy loading SPA/MPA. Just like with viewmodels, DecoJS prefers to lazy load views when they are needed instead of loading them all as templates in the html page. This makes it much easier to scale your website without having to worry about initial load time, and it makes it possible to combine SPAs with [LLPs](#/philosophy/longLivingPage) to create huge Multi Page Applications. 

If DecoJS doesn't find a template with id equal to the current url fragment, it will attempt to load it from the server. Each view that you want to load into the `data-outlet` needs to be a separate file on your webserver or a separate action if you run an MVC on the server. The one-to-one mapping between the fragment path and a view means that DecoJS doesn't need a router on the frontend to map between routes and controllers/views. Once the view has loaded it will be scanned for `data-viewmodel` elements and the viewmodels will be lazy loaded and applied to their respective element.

By default DecoJS will use the url fragment exactly as it is written to load the view. This works well when combining DecoJS with a server side MVC, as it can route the request to a controller and an action. With a simple webserver, however, we probably wish to store our views as html files on the server. To find the correct html file DecoJS needs to translate the current path (the one in the url fragment) into a url, and it does that using the `pathToUrl` method in the spa configuration.

The `pathToUrl` option can be overridden, as shown in the [example below](/examples/advent/10). Your function will be given two arguments, the path as a string and the path as an array of segments, and it must return a string url. 

```js
require(['deco'], function(deco){
  deco.config({
    spa: {
      pathToUrl: function(path){
        return "/examples/advent/10/"+path+".html";
      }
    }
  }).start();
});
```