<meta name="title" content="Relative urls - DecoJS">


<div class="page-header">
  <h1>Relative urls</h1>
</div>

[Yesterday](#10) we looked at how to lazy load views from the server, and how a view an be a file in a folder. Since there are likely many views in many folders, and one view shouldn't know where it is in relation to all the other views, there needs to be a way to navigate between views using relative urls. As we have seen in the last few days, linking to another view is straight forward using html anchor tags with fragment urls, like `<a href="#page2>Page 2</a>`, no JavaScript click listener is needed for this to work! These links can contain both absolute and relative urls, and can navigate up and down folder structures.

* If the link fragment starts with a slash, for example `#/page2`, then it is an absolute path and this will be the new url. The path can contain several segments, like `#/path/to/some/view`, if you need to navigate deep into a folder.

* If the link fragment ends with a slash, for example `#/` or `#/folder/`, then `index` will be appended to the path to produce the new url `#/index` and `#/folder/index`, respectively. If the current url has an empty fragment, the path will be set to `#/index`.

* If the link fragment doesn't start with a slash, for example `#page2`, then it will be a relative url and the last segment of the current url will be replaced with the new fragment. For example, if you are currently viewing `#/folder/index` then clicking on `#deeper/still` will take you to `#/folder/deeper/still`. 

* The link fragment can contain one or more double periods to go up one level (out of a folder). For example, if you are currently viewing `#/deep/into/a/folder` then clicking on `#../../thought` will take you to `#/deep/thought`. 

* DecoJS will strip out and ignore single periods and double slashes in the link fragment. For example the link `#/./index` will take you to `#/index`.

As the examples above show, the fragment links work pretty much like normal anchor tags, except that only the view inside the `data-outlet` is reloaded, not the entire page.

By default DecoJS will add `index` to the end of a path that ends with a slash. This can be changed in the configuration, for example to `home`, so that the application starts with the fragment `#/home`:

```js
require(['deco'], function(deco){
  deco.config({
    spa: {
      index: 'home'
    }
  }).start();
});
```