<meta name="title" content="Nested viewmodels - DecoJS">


<div class="page-header">
  <h1>Nested viewmodels</h1>
</div>

As your web application grows you will probably get a few viewmodels that ends up doing much more than other ones. Just like everything else in programming, simple viewmodels that do only one thing are better than complex viewmodels that do many things. One way to improve on the situation is to split up the viewmodel and import the different pieces as AMD dependencies. This separation will reduce the complexity of each individual viewmodel, but it will also but a hard dependency between two viewmodels. An alternative approach is to nest viewmodels inside each other in the DOM.

Nesting a viewmodel in the DOM is pretty straight forward; simply put two elements with `data-viewmodel` attributes inside each other, like so:

```html
<div data-viewmodel="FirstVM">
  <h1 data-bind="text: title"></h1>
  <div data-viewmodel="SecondVM">
    <a data-bind="text: title, click: $parent.handleClick"></a>
  </div>
</div>
```

This is great for scenarios where the nested viewmodel (`SecondVM` in the above example) has no knowledge of the outer viewmodel as it means you can compose html with viewmodels without having to worry about Knockout binding conflicts. The inner viewmodel will be in a child context of the outer viewmodel, so you can use [`$parent`](http://knockoutjs.com/documentation/binding-context.html) to get to the outer viewmodel, as shown in the above example. In it the `title` will be taken from the `SecondVM` viewmodel while `handleClick` will be taken from the `FirstVM` viewmodel. 

You can use `data-model` just like normal when using nested viewmodels, so the inner viewmodel can still be given dynamic content just as if it was a standalone viewmodel. What is probably more useful is being able to give the nested viewmodel data from the outer viewmodel. This can be done using the `data-params` attribute. It works similar to a binding, in that you provide it with key:value pairs, but these key:value pairs will be given to the nested viewmodel as it's model. For example, you could have a Knockout foreach loop with a nested viewmodel inside, which is given the data from the loop as its model:

#### index.html
```html
<ul data-viewmodel="ListVM" data-bind="foreach: list">
  <li data-viewmodel="ItemVM" data-params="item: $data, index: $index">
    <span data-bind="text: description"></span>
  </li>
</ul>
```

#### ListVM.js
```js
define(['knockout'], function(ko){
  return function ListVM(){
    this.list = ko.observableArray([
      "first",
      "second",
      "third"
    ]);
  };
});
```

#### ItemVM.js
```js
define(['knockout'], function(ko){
  return function ItemVM(model, when){
    this.description = ko.computed(function(){
      return model.item + " is entry number " + model.index();
    });
  };
});
```