<meta name="title" content="QVC - DecoJS">


<div class="page-header">
  <h1>QVC</h1>
</div>

QVC, short for Commands, Validation and Queries, is the main method used by DecoJS to communicate with the server. QVC can be thought of as an alternative to REST, in that it provides a way to communicate with the server, but only has two methods (command and querie) to the four (GET, PUT, POST and DELETE) in REST. While REST is designed for accessing, updating, creating and deleting resources, QVC is designed for running methods on a remote server. These methods can either return a value (queries) or have a side effect (command), but not both. Parameters can be passed from the client to the server, and in the case of queres a result can be returned. Before the method on the server is run the parameters are validate, hence the V in QVC.

DecoJS doesn't care what server it is communicating with, as long as it follows the [QVC specification](https://github.com/decojs/QVC). 

To use QVC in a viewmodel the module needs to import the `deco/qvc` module and create either a command or query. They both take the name of the method that is to be run on the serveras the first parameter. Once a command or query has been made it can be executed, and they can be executed multiple times. This will start an ajax request that will trigger the method on the server.

```js
define(['deco/qvc'], function(qvc){
  return function MyVM(){
    
    this.command = qvc.createCommand('CommandName');
    
    this.query = qvc.createQuery('QueryName');
    
    //later
    
    this.command.execute();
    this.query.execute();
    
  };
});
```

We will look more into commands, queries and the qvc api in the next few days.